Hello, this is Mingqiu Sun.
I have my colleague, Andrew Brown with me.
Today, we're gonna talk about WASI-NN,
stand for WebAssembly System Interface for Neural Network.
slide-2
Next slide.
Let's talk about what is WASI?
WASI stand for WebAssembly System Interface.
It's a subgroup of the WebAssembly CG,
and we are the official group to define WASI API.
And here the GitHub repo,
and we have a video meeting biweekly.
WASI is using Witx
to defined interface.
Next slide.
slide-3
So let me talk about some background information
about Bytecode Alliance.
So this is an open source community that we're dedicated to,
you know, create a secure new software foundation,
building on top of such standard as web assembly, and WASI.
Mozilla, Fastly, Intel and RedHat
are the founding members.
Currently, we have three major engagement
with that organization.
We contribute a small footprint web assembly
implementation coder or WebAssembly Micro Runtime.
We are responsible for SIMD implementation in Wasmtime,
and we are driving this WASI Neural Network interface
definition and the POC.
So those are the three major activity we are engaged with.
And today, we're gonna talk about the WASI-NN.
Slide four.
slide-4
So let's talk about why we are talking about this.
What's the motivation behind WASI neural network?
So, in a typical use scenario for machine learning,
trained model need to be deployed
on a wide variety of devices
with different architecture and operating systems.
So, web assembly is a perfect, you know,
format for this kind of deployment
because it's platform independent.
So why WASI?
Why not doing machine learning, you know,
completely inside web assembly?
So the main reason is that machine learning typically
require a special hardware support
in order to be high performance.
You know, for example, for CPU,
typically, the AVX512 to have extremely good, you know,
performance and similarly, you know,
you might need a GPU, TPU for hardware acceleration.
So machine learning is still evolving rapidly
and there was like a new operation and a new
network topology emerging continuously.
So it makes sense to have a system interface
that connect with a special implementation
of those topology or new operations
outside a web assembly domain.
Slide five.
slide-5
So here a few design considerations.
We are focusing on more,
what's called a model loader API first,
because you know,
inferencing is by, you know, quantity,
it's a vast majority of our machine learning use cases.
And that's the reason that it's our initial focus
and we plan, you know, to add training part later on.
Secondly, you know, it's a simpler API
with excellent IP protection.
So you don't need to expose the internal details
about your machine learning model
through this API.
And it was inspired by the WebNN effort
and they have very similar model loader API.
And then, we had the joint review with them.
So, our intention is to make this API framework
and the model format agnostic,
and then we expect that it will be supported
on a wide variety of devices,
such as CPU, GPU, FPGA, and TPU.
So next slide.
We're gonna turn over to my colleague, Andrew,
to cover the actual API definition.
slide-6
Hi, so the proposed WASI-NN interface
is available at this link.
If you see some of the examples from this slide,
you'll see that it specifies a way to describe tensors,
a way to load models,
and a way to execute inference requests
using those tensors and the loaded models.
The proposal does not yet include a mechanism
for training models.
And also notable is it doesn't specify
the encoding of the model.
And so, that model format is opaque
at the WASI-NN interface level.
That means that the implementation of WASI-NN,
what's in the, for example, WebAssembly runtime
would have to understand the model format
in order to perform the inference.
Next slide.
slide-7
What you're looking at here is a sort of
simple architecture diagram of a POC
that we're attempting, that we're looking at in Wasmtime.
Once complete, what you'll be able to do
is take user application code and a WASI-NN header,
and compile that to a WASM file.
If you combine that with a trained model,
potentially converted using OpenVINO's model optimizer,
you can hand those over to Wasmtime
and Wasmtime will be able to execute the WASM file
using the model file to perform inference.
And the path we're taking right now is
to implement the WASI-NN interface using OpenVINO,
which would allow us to perform inference
on a variety of different hardware.
Back to you, Mingqiu.
slide-8
Okay.
So call for action.
So this is still like an early stage of proposal.
We would like to welcome your input on this proposal
to engage us in the WASI community.
This is, you know, early stage, as I said,
and it's easy to change if you see anything you don't like.
Thank you very much.